**Nand to Tetris IDE Online** is a web-based, integrated, software environment, designed to support the teaching and learning of Nand to Tetris courses. It includes the following tools:

**Hardware simulator:** Used to create chips. Features a built-in HDL editor and all the necessary services for simulating and testing chips. Relevant Nand to Tetris projects: 1, 2, 3, 5.

**CPU Emulator:** Emulates the Hack computer (CPU, RAM, ROM, Screen, Keyboard). Allows loading the computer’s instruction memory with machine language code stored in an external file, or entering machine language code directly into the instruction memory. Features a built-in assembler which is invoked automatically if the loaded/entered code is written in the Hack assembly language. Used mainly in Nand to Tetris project 4, for running and testing programs written in the Hack assembly language.

**VM Emulator:** Emulates the Hack VM (ROM, RAM, Stack, Screen, Keyboard). Allows loading a VM program, and viewing the current stack frame during execution. Primarily used for learning the VM in projects 7, 8, and 9, as well as an intermediate execution environment for output from Jack programs written in chapters 9, 10, and 11. (NOTE: As of Dec 2023, OS support is "coming soon".)

**Assembler:** Used to translate programs written in the Hack assembly language into code written in Hack binary code. Used in Nand to Tetris project 6, for two purposes: (i) Learning how the Hack assembler works, and (ii) Comparing the code generated by the user’s assembler to code created by a correctly-implemented assembler.

**Bitmap editor:** Used for designing visual elements (like sprites) and generating either the Hack or Jack code that implements them. Can be used in Nand to Tetris projects 4 or 9, to help develop computer games and interactive applications that feature graphics and animation.

**Forthcoming tools:** Jack compiler (projects 9,10,11,12) and OS support.

---

**Team:** This online IDE is an open source, freely available, and ongoing project. The project’s initiator, architect, and main developer is David Souther. Neta London fixed bugs and added many extensions. Eric Umble developed the bitmap editor. The Nand to Tetris teaching/learning approach, the Hack computer, and related languages were designed by Noam Nisan and Shimon Schocken.

**The desktop Nand2Tetris Software Suite** (sometimes called “kit”): This venerable working horse, which operated faithfully for many years and supported 250,000+ users on every possible PC/OS configuration, was developed by Yaron Ukrainintz, Nir Rozen, and Yannai Gonczarowski. The first bitmap editor was developed by Golan Parashi. The desktop software suite is still available. It can be used along with, or instead of, the online IDE.
